How do you feel when you
have exerted yourself in some way
and someone you deeply respect says to you,
“Well done”?
Don’t you feel assured that your efforts
were recognized and appreciated?
However, when you dear brothers and sisters
in the 151st class of Gilead
arrive at your assignments
and you exert yourself
to accomplish the work you’ve been given
and give of yourself
to encourage and help others,
suppose you don’t always receive
an audible “well done” from others.
How will you feel?
Does that mean that your efforts
were not appreciated and recognized?
To answer those questions,
we are going to consider:
first, what Jesus had to say on the subject;
second, what we can learn
from some Bible examples;
and third, what this means
for you personally.
Although the desire to receive recognition
from humans is normal,
Jesus helps us to have a balanced view
in Matthew chapter 6.
Please turn to Matthew chapter 6,
and note verse 3
—Matthew 6:3:
“But you, when making gifts of mercy,
do not let your left hand know
what your right hand is doing.”
Now, what did Jesus mean?
Well, these “gifts of mercy”
were really donations for needy ones.
But with these words,
Jesus was exhorting his disciples
not to imitate
the insincere religious leaders of his day
who publicized their gifts of mercy
just to be recognized by humans.
Now, what would be the result
of heeding Jesus words here in verse 3?
Well, Jesus explains in verse 4.
He says: “So that your gifts of mercy
may be in secret.”
Now, for a moment,
think of the gifts of mercy
—the kindnesses
and the theocratic assignments
that you have performed in secret.
For example, likely you’ve
many times telephoned or visited
an ailing brother or sister
just to reassure them
of your love and your concern,
and you’ve even prayed with them,
or perhaps you spent considerable time
being a spiritual mentor
to a Christian youth,
or you may have given generously of yourself
to encourage and provide practical assistance
to a distressed brother or sister
—all of this you did “in secret.”
However, Jesus said that someone
that you deeply respect did take note.
Look there at Matthew 6:4.
He stated in the B  part:
“Your Father who looks on in secret.”
The point is that Jehovah,
who resides in the heavens,
is invisible to mankind,
so he remains in secret
as far as humans are concerned.
But your good deeds
are recognized with approval by Jehovah.
Now, how can we be sure of that?
Well, there are many Bible examples
of faithful men and women, young and old,
whose good deeds and heartfelt devotion
were recognized with approval by Jehovah.
One example is Obadiah, the household steward
of wicked King Ahab.
First Kings chapter 18 explains
that he discreetly, secretly,
and cautiously hid
100 of Jehovah’s prophets
so they would not be killed
by wicked Jezebel.
Now, as illustrated here,
Obadiah supplied them with bread and water
in groups of 50 in caves
without being observed by others.
How do we know that Jehovah in secret
recognized with approval
this faithful, generous, compassionate man?
Well, we know because his courageous acts
are recorded in the Bible
for generations of people to read about.
Another example is the young,
nameless Israelite girl
mentioned in 2 Kings chapter 5.
She was taken away
from her God-fearing family by the Syrians.
Now, as can be seen in this picture,
although surrounded by false worshippers,
she courageously told Naaman’s wife
about Jehovah’s prophet Elisha.
That led to Naaman’s miraculous healing
of leprosy,
it led to Naaman’s becoming
a worshipper of Jehovah,
and it certainly contributed
to Jehovah’s praise.
We don’t know the name of that little girl
—do we?—
but Jehovah does, who in secret
looked favorably on that young girl.
So these two examples and many others
in the Scriptures assure you
that your good deeds are noted by Jehovah.
Please note, though, that Jehovah does more
than just look on in secret.
Look again, please, at Matthew 6:4.
The B  part read in its entirety says:
“Then your Father who looks on in secret
will repay you.”
Often, Jehovah repays us in unexpected ways
—in ways that are better and more meaningful
than humans could ever give us
in the way of recognition.
But how does Jehovah repay us?
While there are many ways,
we’re going to focus
just on three significant ones.
One way is mentioned at Matthew 5:7
—Matthew 5:7.
Jesus said: “Happy are the merciful,
since they will be shown mercy.”
So by our being kind and merciful,
Jehovah mercifully forgives us
and allows us to enjoy
a warm, personal relationship with him.
A second way he repays us is mentioned
at Mark 10:29, 30.
There Jesus promised
that we would receive “100 times more”
than anything we sacrifice to serve Jehovah.
And one resulting, tangible reward
that Jehovah provides
is our ever-expanding,
loving spiritual family.
A third way he repays us
is by means of his promise
of the priceless reward
of everlasting life in God’s new world.
And regarding righteous ones
who perform good deeds
but fall asleep in death
before the end of this system,
Jesus at Luke 14:14 gave the assurance
that they will be repaid in the resurrection.
And then they will see the full effect
of Jehovah’s recognition and blessing
on their good deeds.
In addition to your gifts of mercy
in your new assignments,
your heartfelt devotion will be reflected
as you, with Jehovah’s help,
face and successfully endure
various challenges
—many of which
others will know nothing about.
But even though
you may not receive recognition
or a complimentary “well done” from others
for your good deeds, your kindnesses,
your sacrifices, and your endurance,
please remain confident
that you will be recognized with approval
by a loving Father, Jehovah.
And as Jesus promised:
“[Jehovah] who looks on in secret
will repay you.”